Hey everyone and thanks for jumping back
into the cryptoverse.
Today we're going to talk about Bitcoin
and we're going to be discussing how it
is now fallen back below the bare market
resistance band. If you guys like the
content, make sure you subscribe to the
channel, give the video a thumbs up, and
also check out the sale on Into the
Cryptoverse Premium at into the
cryptoverse.com.
Let's go ahead and jump in. So, as we've
talked about before, midterm years are
very difficult to navigate for Bitcoin.
And one of the reasons is because while
they historically are bearish, they are
riddled with these bare market rallies
that really cause emotions to get really
high and and and
you know, sort of FOMO back in, right?
But so far
the market is playing out just as it
always has. And if it changes, I will be
very quick to admit that I'm wrong,
right? If if we start to see something
that is different. But we haven't
actually seen that yet, you know, and
and so until we do, I think it makes
sense to just be simply open-minded to
the idea that this is just simply going
to play out like it has. in other
midterm years. And right now, Bitcoin
has fallen back below its bare market
resistance band, at least on the daily.
Now, on the weekly, that remains to be
seen, right? I mean, the the the 20week
moving average
um is what what's it? It's like 74K. So,
we're about $1,000 below that. So, we'll
see where it comes in at the end of the
week. But a lot of times when you get
above the bull market support band um
you know at the end of a bare market,
you really want to see more followth
through before you then start retesting
it. If you look to see how it played out
in 2023, there was significantly more
follow-through on this move before you
retested it and then it went higher.
This one barely had any follow-through.
And that's one of the things that I I I
think you have to really consider here
is that if you don't get these big moves
through the bull market support band,
then what they end up looking like is
more like the fake outs that you get in
the midterm years where you go
marginally above the bare market
resistance band and and the bulls come
out and dunk on the bears and then you
look back a few weeks later and you're
like, "Oh,
It was the same thing as it all. It just
did the same thing that it always does
in the midterm years where it goes above
the bare market resistance band briefly,
but it doesn't actually sustain it. And
timing the exact counter trend rallies
is is difficult. I am not going to
pretend like I have the ability to do
it. Sometimes I time them well um and
then other times not so much. In 2022, I
think I timed maybe two of the rallies.
Okay. I think one I timed well, one was
kind of okay, and then one was really
bad. And then all I can remember now is
the one that I the one I kind of think
about a lot is the one that I didn't get
right. Right. Like I I think I timed
that one in 2022, right? But this one in
late 2022, I I sort of mistimed it. Um,
so it's really hard to know exactly when
they occur and to what price they're
going to rally to, but what's more
important is not knowing exactly what
price it goes to, but more so knowing
what regime are we in, right? And a lot
of people have have sort of put out this
puzzling idea of like, well, why does
Bitcoin keep going down when the stock
market keeps going up? And what I think
is the reason is because it frankly
comes down to the four-year cycle and
that narratives follow price. If you
need a narrative, I think a great
narrative is just simply that Bitcoin is
further up the risk curve than stocks.
Whether you like it or not, whether I
like it or not, it just simply is. And
and so when you have a period of
inflation kind of starting to come back,
it's going to cause those rate cuts that
were priced in to get priced out. And
now with the market pricing in rate
hikes, who knows if they happen or not,
but with the market pricing them in,
that continues to be a macro headwind
for Bitcoin, you know, for at least a
few more months. You could even argue
that maybe Bitcoin will bottom right
before the rate hikes start. There is a
good chance if there are rate hikes,
there's a good chance that Bitcoin
prices all that stuff in before it
happens and then it starts back into its
bull market really late this year, early
2027. I mean, there's certainly a chance
that it does in fact play out that way.
Now, with Bitcoin, the other thing that
hasn't really changed is that where it
got rejected from. Okay. Now, we
actually talked about this a few weeks
ago where we said a lot of times the way
this plays out is you'll rally above the
21week EMA, you'll go to the 200 day,
you'll come back down to the 21week EMA,
you'll go back up, and then you'll come
down. Some of you guys probably remember
that video, right? And and where we came
up with that was looking at how it had
played out in prior bare markets where
you go through the bull market spread
band of the 200 day back down to test it
back up and then down. Okay, that it's a
very common pattern
um that that we've seen. You can also
see it actually played out in in 2018 as
well where you go above the bull mark
band, get it close to the 200 day, back
down, test it, bounce, and then down. So
this pattern is a pattern we've seen so
many times before, right? Like there's
been no shortage of Bitcoin going above
the 21week EMA, 20week SMA in bare
markets, rallying to the 200 day. All
the bulls come out, they dunk on the
bears profusely, and then all of a
sudden it's like the air just gets let
out and Bitcoin then just slowly goes
back down. So you have to be careful.
And and one of the things I said is at
the end of um
the midterm year or sorry at the end of
the post having year one of the things I
said is the hardest thing to do with
crypto in the midterm year is just to
just kind of like forget about it for at
least the first half of the midterm year
and then in the second half to start
really getting a little bit more
interested because it's in the first
half of the year where you really get
those stronger counter trend rallies
that people fall for. and and then as
you get past that then everyone starts
to accept the bare market and then once
everyone accepts the bare market that's
usually when the bare market is actually
over. Um, so the other thing that I I I
I wanted to sort of touch base on is,
you know, the timing of this, right?
Look, I don't know exactly when the the
next low is going to be or the next, you
know, major market cycle bottom. What I
will say is this. Historically, weak
points in the market in midterm years
for Bitcoin are around the June time
frame and then you normally form a major
low in Q4. Okay? Uh so you'll see like
June of 2018, June of 2022
and you know and in and in 2018 it was
just a sweep of the prior low from
February. Um, in 2022 it was a much
lower low. Structurally, this looks more
like 2018 to me than it does 2022 in
terms of like um, you know, how the how
the market's playing out, but it's not
like there's no similar. I mean, there
are some similarities of 2022 as well,
but I think I think 2018 is a little bit
more relevant. Also, 2018, Trump was
president as well, midterm year, a lot
of the same stuff. By the way, in 2018,
the stock market had a deep correction
in the early part of the year and then
it had a second correction in the back
half of the year. And it was actually
the second correction that call you
could argue sort of coincided with
Bitcoin getting that that final drop
into Q4. So, what I what I would be
looking for is,
you know, some type of low in the
summer. Um my guess would be in June
sometime maybe maybe July and then a
bounce in like the July August time
frame and then maybe a final drop in the
September October time frame. Now there
is a chance that the next low could be
the final low depending on how low we
go. Okay, you know, the the 200week
moving average is probably going to come
into play regardless of whether, you
know, regardless of of a lower low or
not. Like you could have a higher low
and and it still tagged the 200WE moving
average because the 200WE moving average
is now above where we wked to back in
February.
But note that last cycle we actually
went below the 200E moving average. So
I think it's going to come into play,
right? But I think that 200 week is
going to come into play. That is in fact
our date with destiny, right? We've
talked about that for a while. I It's
just a matter of time in my opinion. And
a lot of times a lot of times you'll see
it come into play. Um, you know, as you
get deeper into the bare market, right?
As you get closer to the end of the bare
market, that 200 week moving average
will come into play. It doesn't have to
act as support, but once you get around
that level, you know, you have to start
at least asking the questions about, all
right, how much longer will the bare
market last? I also want to say one more
thing because, you know, over the last
few weeks or last few months, there's
been a lot of people that have obviously
dunked on me all all over Twitter, but I
would encourage you if you have been
bearish and you feel like you've been
getting dunked on as well and you feel
like, you know, like the market's just
been against you and and it's been going
the wrong direction, if a lower low is
set, you know, perhaps perhaps we could
be the bigger people and not dunk on on
the bulls because to some degree
All the Bitcoin, maybe not all, but most
of the Bitcoin bears are bulls and
waiting, right? So,
don't make the mistake if there are
lower lows that come later this year,
don't make the mistake of just, you
know, using that opportunity to go dunk
on the on the bulls because you might
want to actually use that opportunity to
to, you know, to consider getting a
position at that point. Um, so it's just
something I've been thinking about.
Maybe maybe that's something that we
could we could try to do and and we'll
see if this plays out like like prior
cycles. You know, I I still think it's
going to at this point. Um, and I'm not
going to change my mind on every single
rally that we get. We'd have to go much
higher than current prices for me to
even consider it at this point in the
midterm year. But by Q4, you'll probably
see my tone shift a lot. Okay? I won't
be nearly as deterministically bearish.
Um, I'll I'll start being more
optimistic on on Bitcoin and uh and and
the narratives will change, right? The
tides will probably turn. But until that
time, you know, I have to stick with
with what the data says. And if I'm
wrong, I'll lick my wounds and I'm
wrong. Uh but if I'm right then it was
basically it's not that I had a crystal
ball, right? I was just looking, hey
guys, this is what always happens in
midterm years. And let's just assume
that maybe it happens again. You know,
at some point the four-ear cycle will
probably break, but that could be 20
years from now or 10 years. Like no one
knows when that's going to happen. And
usually when they break it's because of
it's not for the right reasons, right?
You remember how people always talk
about how they want Bitcoin to decouple
from the stock market and then every
time they talk about that it ends up
decoupling in the wrong way? If the
four-year cycle were to ever break, it
would probably break for a bad reason,
not a good reason. So, I would assume I
would prefer the four-year cycle just
remains intact because one of the way,
and by the way, I don't mean to scare
you. One of the ways it could break is
not necessarily because the price has to
absolutely capitulate to prices beyond
what anyone can imagine. It could just
be that it breaks because the price of
Bitcoin just doesn't go anywhere for a
long time. You know, like if you think
about it, Bitcoin's basically the same
price today that it was like say five
years ago. Imagine if that ends up being
true in another 3 years or something.
Then maybe you get a midterm year that
ends up being green, but it's only
because for the last decade, Bitcoin
didn't go anywhere. Uh so usually when
when sort of cycles like that break,
it's not because the super cycle takes
over. It's because, you know, investor
expectations get too lofty. They get
wrecked and then the cycle the bears
have been completely or the bulls have
been completely annihilated and then you
get to a midterm year where it just kind
of drifts higher because the bulls were
already annihilated.
But in this case, that's not where we
have been, right? There were plenty of
people, you know, super cycle guys uh
back in in late 2025. It's not like it's
not like the bulls are completely
annihilated. Um and and really what I
think's happening now is it's it's
actually long-term I think really good
for the industry because I I think there
is a lot of froth in the space or
continues to be. Um and by having one of
these longer down periods, it it really
does allow a lot of that to exit. And
and you could say, well, this is only,
you know, this bare market's been going
only going on for a little while, but in
some ways it's kind of been going on a
lot longer. You know, when you measure
Bitcoin against other things besides the
US dollar, the bare market's actually
been going on a lot longer than October,
like if you measure Bitcoin against,
say, gold, it's been going down since,
you know, since like December of 2024.
So,
you're talking about a year and a half
now um of of sort of waning price
action. And you could look at Bitcoin
against a basket of other things, even
other fiat currencies, and see that it
actually topped a lot earlier than than
October. So,
those are my thoughts about about
Bitcoin. I think it's playing out how it
always has. I I think it's best to just
keep this really, really simple. Let's
not over complicate it. You don't need,
you know, a thousand different
indicators to to navigate Bitcoin. As
much as you know a lot of people would
have you believe one of the things that
think about it right
just to be candidly honest about about
this market all you ever had to do
despite every indicator despite every
regression ban or power law or or you
know stock toflow model or whatever
whatever even even all the onchain
stuff, even all the risk stuff, social
interest, all that stuff. All you ever
had to do
was buy Bitcoin at the end of midterm
years
and sell it at the end of post having
years. That's all you ever had to do.
Okay? And we can we can try to over
complicate it, right? I mean, we
probably will, but that's all you ever
had to do. And so what I would say is
one of the most important aspects of
this market is not price. It's not where
does the price of Bitcoin have to go to
allow a bottom. I don't know exactly
where it's going to be.
There are some cases where if I just
hold 60K for the rest of the year, then
maybe that's good enough, but it's too
early in the year to call for that,
right? like you'd have to go through the
whole summer holding 60K and kind of get
through the Q4 period of still holding
it to then be at least somewhat
confident that it's going to hold. We're
still going to be in that window of
weakness, probably through at least
October. And so until that time, it
makes sense to be at least open-minded
to it going lower. Even if it doesn't go
lower, it it doesn't really matter. But
the point is is when you look at the
year-to- date ROI of Bitcoin in midterm
years and look at the average of it and
compared to this year, we are slightly
outside of those bounds, but we could be
coming right back into them because if
you look at every other midterm year,
there was always sort of a brief exit
from these bounds that I mean, these are
made up from, but you can see it's not
like it's not like there's any single
year where it just perfectly stays
within the bounds. So, why would you
expect 2026 to just perfectly stay
within these bounds? So consider that.
And then honestly, one of the best
charts to look at right now is this one,
the ROI from the low and then carry it
out to the bottom. One of the best
charts. If you had to say, what is the
one chart you're looking at the most
right now? It's this one. Because did
this chart tell you that Bitcoin was
going to top at 126K
three years before it did?
No,
but it did tell you that Bitcoin would
top in Q4.
Okay.
Is this chart going to tell you exactly
where Bitcoin's going to bottom
potentially later this year in Q4? No.
But it might tell you when. And that's
the point. That's the important aspect
of it. The price is not as important as
people as people make it out to be. It's
just not. It's more of a timebased
capitulation. It's not like Bitcoin has
to go to some specific price for the
market to bottom. It's timebased
capitulation. It's people giving up and
that is what leads to the end of bare
markets. If you guys like the content,
make sure you subscribe to the channel,
give the video a thumbs up, and again
check out the sale on into the
cryptoverse premium at into the
cryptoverse.com.
I'll see you guys next time. Bye.